# Design Doc - Java Creators Blog

# Note

This is a work in progress. Some ideas are still being thought of.

## Abstract

This software is intended to serve as a website for general blogging.

## Developers

Matamercer

## Glossary

## Purpose

## Audience

Anyone who wants a flexible blog to host with a small number of users or share their viewpoints in comment sections.

## Technology

The technology for the backend will be Java and Spring Boot. Server side rendering will be done with Thymeleaf.

The client side rendering is done in React and TypeScript. Mainly logged in user tools will be done in React to add dynamicism to the website.

To improve search results, the SEO sensitive content such as images, post text, and tags relevant to the creator MUST be rendered statically without Javascript. Components that do not contain key words such as likes, follows, bookmarks, and comments can be rendered using React components. In other words content relevant to logged in users can be rendered in React.

### Functional Requirements

#### Navbar

- Allow users to search on keyword
- Allow users to search by username or blog
- Allow users to search by tag 
- There is a cooldown for every 10 searches if they are not a registered user.

#### Home

- Show top 10 posts of the week
- Show recent posts

#### Post

- Each post will have CRUD
- Each post will have a title, content, tags, likes, reblogs, and replies.
- Posts can have a parent so they can be chained up in a tree. 

#### Notifications
- Blog owners will be notified if they get a like or reply.

#### Registration
- Captcha is required for registering an account.
- New account owners will be sent a verification link that expires in 10 minutes.
- New account owners can resend the link if it fails.

### Blogs
- User is given one default blog on registration.
- User can make multiple blogs. 
- blogs follow other blogs. Users don't follow each other. This is to keep two areas of the website separate. 



#### Jobs
- Unverified accounts will be deleted in 48 hours


### Non-Functional Requirements

- All search engine relevant content generated by the blog must be viewable without javascript. User menus should be done with Javascript to provide a responsive UX without reloads.
- Site must load fast

### Architecture

The main component is the Spring Application. It will handle rendering web views, authenticating, and authorization.
THe second component is the SQL database.
The third component is amazon s3 for storing images.
The fourth component is Redis for caching pages.



## Budget

4 months
